Going on. Oh, I know what I really wanted to ask you about,
cause we've been discussing this and I don't really understand it. Um,
it was about Wawe that, uh,
Chinese company electronics company, mm-hmm <affirmative> um,
they make these kick phones and the state department has said,
please do not buy them.
Yes. Yeah. Along with ZTE another corporation. Yeah. Um,
I, if you start from the premise that the China is the number one perpetrator
of economic espionage and theftf of intellectual property, uh,
and also by the way, the number one perpetrator out there of cyber shenanigans,
you know, activity in cyber space because they it's.
So bad with theft, theft of intellectual property.
They have have fake apple stores over in China with all fake
apple stuff. Yes. Fake apple laptops, fake apple phones,
everything fake, the labels look identical.
None of it is actually apple products. Right.
And it all works frankly, as well. Does it? Yeah. I mean, it's all good stuff.
Um, you know, I, uh, I would say, um, it, yeah, it's astounding.
And so the, the reason why they're,
they're raising the alarm with Huawei and, and, uh,
ZTE is because of the voracious appetite of,
uh, the Chinese government and, um,
their commercial sector for information <affirmative>. And, um,
it's a little bit like, you know,
shutting the door after the horse is headed down the hill because we're late
to the game they've been doing this for years and years and years they've been
oddly enough, you know,
a lot of our military gear have parts in it manufactured in China. Right.
And so, you know, if, if we,
we should have been raising the concern about this and talking with China and
trying to come to terms with this issue years ago. I mean, we're, we're,
we're trying to have that conversation with them now. And up on Capitol hill,
you know, the,
the Congress is trying to enact legislation kind of like the sequaua thing,
they're doing it in the clumsy fashion, but the overriding principle,
correct in that China made some decisions years ago,
that they were going to become a major power in the world, um,
in a certain timeframe. And to do that, by definition,
you gotta compress your research and development time, right?
And there's one way to do that. And essentially, and that's to steal,
inform to acquire information if I wanna be diplomatic about it. And, um,
that's what they've done.
Japan came outta world war II and their idea was we're gonna become a major
power through manufacturing. And so they did,
they built up their manufacturing base and created this, uh, this, this amazing,
uh, result. China decided we're gonna skip the R and D for the most part. Um,
and all of that tales, the cost and time involved. And they've,
they're very adept at it. They,
they throw an enormous amount of resource out there into hoovering up
everything, not just from us, but from everybody. And using that, uh,
to advance their goals.
They have no firewall between their Intel service and the PLA military
intelligence and others and their commercial sector. So, you know,
not only are they there to protect national security, they're there to promote,
uh, the commercial, uh, side of, of China. Um, and that's why it's so important.
And so that's why they're, they're talking about Huawei, uh,
because of the potential for them to, uh, use their, uh, their reach,
uh, to further their desire for information, whatever it may be.
They'll Hoover it up and then decide whether it's useful or not,
but they have the resource to do that as opposed to, you know,
a smaller country that maybe doesn't have the resource and is much more targeted
and focused on their Intel collection or their efforts to get other information.
So that's, that's sort of the, yeah, that was a wordy explanation.
No, but it makes sense. And it's, uh, when I read it,
I read a bunch of tech articles where people were questioning whether or not
it's even possible for Huawei to be using those phones, to spy on people.
But then there was some other articles where Huawei was being charged with, uh,
what was it again that they were using? They were,
they were selling illegal technology to Iran. There, there was something,
they were, they were breaking the sanctions. I think. Yeah, they were,
there were.
No <laugh> no I'm saying, I saying shock. No, that couldn't happen.
Yeah, they were. But is what, so they were,
they were selling things to Iran and this was a,
a big part of it that they were what the tech people were saying.
They were incredulous here. Huawe under mm-hmm <affirmative> is that you again?
You saw the. Jesus Christ.
I've turned this thing off too. I don't understand why it keeps going.
It's your watch. I got, you know what? I have a dope, I would,
I would put it on airplane mode, but I don't have a clue how, what I.
Gotta swipe up from the bottom. I gotta swipe. Jamie.
Can I gotta swipe up from the bottom? Okay. Everybody gets your phones.
Watch is ring. Get your watch out. And now it, I feel like Dick Tracy.
It really does feel like Dick Tracy, when we were kids,
the idea of talking on your phone, be so ridiculous. Like what?
That's never gonna happen. You.
You do that for me.
Well, you, you gotta your password on I ah. Oh, Christ. You,
when you take it off, the password comes on immediately. Oh really? As.
Soon as you take it off. No, no, that's a dial tone. That's that's uh,
that's keykeyboardkeyboard yeah. Yeah.
I don't even know Lord right now people are thinking really that guy worked,
worked at the.
Let's. Listen to him. It's perfect with your phone call. Hopefully they,
I don't know that it's,
it's hilarious because you are talking about technology and then this happens.
So we're talking about whether or not we should be worried about Huwe and you
can't even figure out how to use your watch. Yeah.
Well, I'll tell you what that's, that's perfectly understandable.
Anybody that knows me knows that that's the case, because I mean, and,
and back to be fair back in the old days, again,
we had compassasses and maps and we just, you know, but, uh,
even when we started developing new technology and care, quite frankly, um,
if you gotta go out and do anything,
the first thing you do is throw everything away. That's got a battery in it.
Right, right. Yeah. And so we weren't necessarily, you,
you dumb it down because you assume something's gonna go wrong.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and usually it does. Um, and usually it's based on, on kit,
on gear. And so, yeah, I never really became very adept at it. We've got a,
we've got a, um, I got I this three little boys, uh, yeah.
Scooterluuggo and Mugsie and, and, uh, I got.
Them those hilarious names and they're, they're.
Hilarious. There's great kids, but we got a, we got a gaming system.
I'm trying to remember what the hell, Xbox.
Or PlayStation, uh.
Xbox it's at Xbox and, uh,
cuz my youngest Mugsie he's uh he's he's always six.
And so he still says he he's thrilled to pronounce his words. Right. So it's X,
Xbox, and it's, it's very cute. I can't do it. It does.
It sounds stupid when I do it, when he does it' enormously cute.
So we got this thing and I'll sit there with him and try to play NBA twok or
something and it just doesn't work. It's not intuitive to me. Right.
There's nothing that's intuitive about it. Kids know how.
To fineangle and press the right button. They're.
They' scared of it or they're not, they, they just assume they're gonna get it.
You.
Know, the, they can unlock hidden characters by moving the joyick a funny way.
Yeah.
Mugy talks to the LeBron, LeBron James directly.
Apparently they communicate through Xbox now. Yeah, I know. Interesting. There.
There you go. So the, the tech people that are, uh, skeptical,
what they're saying is that if Huawei really did have something in their phone
that allowed them to spy on people, you'd be able to find it.
And the tech guys would find it. Do you buy that?
Um, here, uh, here's what I would say about that is that,
um, I'm sure. Yeah. There's obviously a lot of very smart tech guys and within,
uh, diligence for all your information and security needs,
we have some very smart tech people. Um,
but when you're talking about the Chinese state and the resources and
capabilities that that entails, uh, yes, if you're,
if you're saying that NSA could possibly detect this,
but if you're talking about just dispersing, you know,
kid out into the marketplace, uh,
and the way that that then gets spread and disseminated and inserted into
companies and, and, um, uh,
then potentially allows points of access into these businesses. And again,
it doesn't matter.
It's not like they just have to go after IBM or Raytheon or something they're
going after everything because it, it potentially is all of interest to them.
So their.
Idea is to just steal as much technology and as much intellectual property as
they can and recreate it over in China.
That has been the, the plan. I don't wanna keep, you know, I don't wanna,
you know.
Uh, demonize an entire nation. Right, exactly. But.
They have proven themselves enormously adept at doing this. And, um,
they've they, and not that others don't right. Russia does the same thing,
a variety of others, you know, even, you know, a lot of our allies,
everybody to the degree that they have the resources and the motivation and they
consider it an issue related national security, whatever it might be,
they're willing to do it, they're willing to try. Um, so it, it is, uh,
it is interesting, but yeah, the, the huay thing and the ZTE, again, I, I,
I think the, the roll out of that con concern and the,
the roll out of sort of trying to provide guidance has been a little clumsy. Mm.
So, so one,
one thing that was speculation was that people didn't have to worry about the
phones,
but what essentially they're trying to do is cripple the company financially and
not allow them to get a foothold in America,
because they're the third largest cell phone manufacturer in the world.
Number one, apple, number two, Samsung they're number three, but in America,
no one knows who they are.
And so the idea is what they're trying to do is make sure that the Chinese
government doesn't get a foothold in this company,
in this country where those companies, or, or wawei the company Wawe,
mm-hmm becomes a, a, a popular brand for people to buy.
And that would allow them,
even if they didn't have any spy device on this phone,
it would allow them to get other devices into people's homes that could
potentially spy on them. And then more and importantly, get into companies,
right. And spy on the companies.
And this was one of the pieces of speculation that I read about was that they
had certain servers that were sending an exorbitant amount of information,
uh, out. And they, they were trying to figure out what was going on with them.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And that there was like an excessive amount of information that was data that
was leaving the server verse versus coming in. And they're like,
this really seems like some up going on with this. Right.
Right. I mean, hu Huwe, first of all,
Huai is already present here in the country. Right.
They manufacture a lot of things besides phones. And so they've already got a,
a pretty big footprint in this country and, and, and with our allies as well.
Um, so I mean,
I think it's smart to consider the,
the nature of a particular regime or government, you know, when you're,
um, talking about the potential for their products to enter into,
um, the commercial sector where they may have access. Because if, you know,
if they've shown a pattern of activity for acquiring intellectual property,
which is again, a very delicate way to put it,
then I don't think it's a stretch to say we should be concerned by their
efforts to put, um, communications gear,
even if it seems pedestrian at the outset, uh, into the marketplace.
So I, I, I'm not sure that I'm,
I'm buying the idea that it's some nefarious plan to shut out Huawei so that
they, they don't get a, a foothold in the phone business. Um, no,
and I say that because I've been, you know, 30 years I've been, you know,
dealing with the Chinese, uh, in terms of their, uh,
efforts to acquire information,
both in the government and commercial side of things. So, uh,
I come at it from a very cynical point of view, uh,
much like I do with the Iranian issue and,
and the likelihood that they have not been living up to, you know, their,
their part of the bargain. Um, and people will say, well, again,
I go back to the same thing. Well,
but we've been inspecting and they've been complying with all of that. Well,
yeah. You know,
this limited amount of inspection that we have to their civilian sites,
and it's it, it's not a secret, you know,
at this point it shouldn't be a secret that again,
we have no access to their military facilities. So, um, I,
I tend to look at things in that view. And I, and I,
if I see a pattern of activity, uh, I'm,
I'm very reluctant to think they're somehow going to stop that pattern of
activity for whatever reason. Right? So again, North Korea, same thing,
the problem with all of this North Korea, Iran, Syria, chemical weapons,
the problem with all of that, I realize I'm kind of jumping around. I've just,
uh, uh, oawes over here,
but is the verification issue. It's always the,
the weak link in any type of agreement related to containing a weapons program
is verification. And we know that we, you know,
it's something we should know anyway, we keep, we seem to keep forgetting it.
So unless we can lock that down with the north Koreans,
then, you know,
aeighteen deal with them or a deal with the Iranians or a deal with the Syrians
over their chemical weapons efforts. And it it's, it's, it's not worth anything.
So that's, that's where the focus has to be. And for whatever reason,
the previous administration was keen to get this deal done.
And they were willing to set aside this issue of all the military sites set
aside the issue of ballistic missiles. And by the way,
the deal that president has just scuttled did nothing to,
uh, impact or affect or tamp down or moderate
their behavior.
They've got more influence in the middle east than they've had ever before.
They're engaged in more, uh, activity related to, uh,
you know, uh, the country in the middle east against our interests, uh,
than they have been in, in, in decades. So that,
that all by itself should tell us, well, you know,
I'm not saying that they're using all the money. We gave them to, uh, support,
you know, uh, actions against our interest by hesboah or by, uh, uh,
revolutionary guard or others, but they are. And though,
you know, I, I, again, I'm, I,
I don't have a lot of angst over the idea that we,
we step away from the deal for a period of time.
Maybe we can come up with something better. Um, and we should,
we should always keep demo, uh, diplomacy open,
always have a channel of communications. That's important. Keep doing that,
but be pragmatic and realistic about what you got right now. We don't,
we don't have that much and don't buy wallway at phones and don't, well,
I would interesting enough, you know, that actually came out. No,
they make a great phone <laugh> uh, but that came up in that,
in the CIA confirmationary. Oh, really? Yeah. They literally said, um,
I forget which center it was asked Gina Hasell about Huawei and ZTE
and, um, I dunno where they were going with it,
but then it devolved into just trying to get us all,
all those Senate confirmation questions do it just comes, you know,
the senators saying, well, I just want a yes or, and no answer, you know, like,
like, wait a minute. Why, why don't you want some detail?
But so they would say yes or no. Would you buy Huwe? And Chah Hassman was like,
well, no, I wouldn't buy a Huwe fault. Okay. <laugh> yeah. I'm,
that's your answer. So,
but I'm sure it left a lot of people wondering and scratching their heads and
go, what are they talking about? Chinese phones for.